

On the afternoon of the day following Chester St. Johnâ€™s visit to Mr.
Hilton, the former was seated alone in the library of his fatherâ€™s
mansion on Fifth Avenue, pondering sadly over the change that seemed
to have come over all his life since the hour when the hope he had
cherished of winning Iris for his wife had been shattered by her own
cruel rejection of him.

He felt assured that there was some mystery connected with Irisâ€™ flight
from the home of the man he still believed to be her father, but that
this mystery was connected with any unworthy love never for one moment
occurred to the loyal heart of Chester St. John, Oscar Hiltonâ€™s hints
to that effect notwithstanding.

While he was thinking thus, a servant brought him a card bearing the
name of Oscar Hilton, and informed him that that gentleman was waiting
to see him downstairs.

â€œThank Heaven, he brings me some news of Iris!â€ was Chesterâ€™s first
thought. But his first glimpse into Hiltonâ€™s face showed him that
whatever the tidings the latter brought there was in them no cause for
rejoicing.

Mr. Hilton was very pale, and his face wore an expression of deep
sorrow.

â€œI am in great trouble,â€ he said, in answer to Chesterâ€™s anxious
inquiry, and stood for a moment with his hands clasped on the low,
marble mantel, and his face hidden in them.

St. John was terribly alarmed, but could not give voice to his fears,
and Hilton himself was obliged to resume the conversation.

â€œI came to you, St. John, because I know you loved my unfortunate
child, and----â€

â€œMy God, what is it? What has happened? Do not keep me in suspense;
tell me the worst,â€ cried the young man hoarsely.

And with his hatred for unhappy Iris growing stronger than ever with
every fresh evidence of this manâ€™s love for her, Hilton exclaimed:

â€œThe worst is only this--that Iris is unworthy your love or mine.
Chester St. John, I will tell you a secret you should never have known
but for that girlâ€™s ingratitude to me. Iris is no child of mine; her
mother was, when I first met her, the divorced wife of a man who was
serving out a term of imprisonment for forgery.

â€œYou can understand my infatuation, St. John, when I tell you that the
mother at that time was far more beautiful than the daughter is to-day.
Iris was then a child of two years, and I promised to rear her as my
own, and have faithfully kept my vow, as you may have seen, making no
difference between her and my own child, Isabel. When I listened to
your confession of love for her, you may have seen that I was agitated,
but even then I would have allowed you to take the girl to your heart
without revealing a word of the truth to you, in my affection for her,
had it not been for her conduct since that time. But what is the
matter with you? Why do you look at me so strangely?â€

â€œI think I understand now the reason she rejected me. You were not so
kind to her as you tried to be to me. You told her this story of her
unhappy parentage, and the poor child was too proud to come to me with
this stain upon her name, my poor, little love!â€

The tone of exquisite tenderness in which these last words were spoken
enraged Hilton almost beyond power of control, and he could not quite
conceal his exultation as he handed Chester a dainty, pink-tinted
envelope, with his own name written in a feminine hand on its face.

He recognized the penmanship instantly as that of Iris, who had once
copied a song for him, and whose notes to his sister Grace he had read
on several occasions.

â€œRead the letter; you have a right to be made acquainted with its
contents,â€ said Mr. Hilton; and thus urged, St. John took the letter,
upon which Irisâ€™ blue eyes had never fallen, and read words that
separated him from her so effectually that unless the truth of this
missive should be discovered, she would be to him henceforth as the
greatest stranger--a woman whom he could no longer respect.

He handed the letter back to Oscar Hilton in silence, but his face was
as white as it would ever be in its coffin, and his hand trembled so
that the letter fluttered from his hold to the floor.

â€œI thank you for having awakened me from my dream,â€ he said hoarsely;
and a few minutes later Mr. Hilton took his departure, exulting in the
thought that if Chester St. John and Iris Tresilian met face to face on
the morrow, the former would pass the girl as if she were a stranger;
and it now only remained for Isabel to win the heart which no longer
belonged to another.



