

Philip did not carry out his intention of leaving London as soon as
escape could be accomplished without hurt to his parents' feelings. He
felt as though helpless in the grip of some mysterious conspiracy that
from day to day left him with hardly an hour that he could call his own.

"London is an awful place," he complained to his mother; "the smallest
errand runs away with the best part of a day, buying socks and shirts
for example, not to speak of boots and the tailor! Trades-people seem to
take a delight in obstructing one at every turn. If you wish to buy a
pair of gloves in comfort you have to be prepared to spend hours over
it, what with going and coming and hunting about for what you really
want!"

"Dearest boy, how you do exaggerate!" argued Lady Flint, fondly. "But I
know what you mean. I always felt the same for the first month after I
got home from India. Life is so different out there; plenty of space and
no trouble over trifles, though one hardly calls setting oneself up in
necessaries exactly a trifle anywhere. You ought to go to the dentist,
too, and see a doctor, and have your eyes tested. Don't leave all that
to the end of your leave, or the last month will be worse than the
first. And your father thinks you ought to attend a levee."

"My teeth are all right, I'm not ill, and I can see perfectly well;
also I am not going to attend a levee," he assured her firmly; he could
not have explained his condition of mind to his mother even had he
desired to do so; he could hardly account for it to himself. He felt
restless and listless at the same time; he hated the crowds in the
streets and the shops, the appointments to see relations that his mother
cajoled him into making, the little luncheons and teas with aunts and
cousins who were all so much more delighted to see him than he was to
see them; and Grace was a nuisance; she dragged him hither and thither,
tied him down to engagements without his permission, told him, when he
protested, that he wanted "waking up." Miss Baker, to his surprise, was
ever ready to aid and abet Grace in making up theatre and supper
parties--always something--Sandown, Ranelagh, the Park, endless
"tamashas"; Miss Baker appeared to have forgotten all her unworldly
theories, and to be as keen on gaiety as the rest of them; and wherever
they went he found himself at her side. Philip began to suspect his
sister of match-making; the suspicion became a certainty one evening
when he had accompanied her unwillingly to a great "crush" in Carlton
House Terrace, which, to him, was just a kaleidoscope of colour and
jewels, and a pushing, chattering throng.

The blaze of light, the crowd, and the scents, and the closeness of the
atmosphere, despite blocks of ice and electric fans, confused and
depressed him; he stood moody and resentful as Grace greeted her
friends, kept introducing him: "My brother from India," and he had to
listen and reply to vapid remarks about heat and snakes, and how
interesting it must be to live in India, and so on; till at length, in
desperation, he interrupted a conversation his sister was holding with a
being whose coat-front was bespattered with orders, to tell her he meant
to go home.

"This is more than I can stand," he said with suppressed impatience;
"I'm off!"

"Oh, Philip, do wait; Dorothy is sure to be here presently, and then
you'll be all right." Her eyes roved round the brilliant scene. "She was
to meet us here, you know. You can't disappoint her."

"She won't be disappointed."

"Of course she will be. Philip," she added, with serious intention,
"don't be a fool!"

"What do you mean?" he began hotly, but just then they were swept
asunder by new arrivals, and as he turned to flee he encountered Miss
Baker at the head of the stairs. He felt that a web was being woven
around him; now he understood what they were all driving at--Grace, and
his mother, and yes, Dorothy herself!--for as he met her eyes shining
with welcome he realised that she, with everyone else, awaited but one
outcome of their friendship. How blind he had been; he cursed his own
denseness.

As a matter of course she attached herself to him. "Where shall we go?
It's too early for supper, and I don't feel inclined to sit and listen
to music. Let's find some comfortable corner where we can talk in
peace."

"I am making for a comfortable corner farther away," he said
petulantly; "I'm going home!"

"Oh!" her dismay was patent, "and when I've only just come? I've got
something to tell you, something thrilling! Look here, I know this house
well. Come along, follow me!"

What else could he do? Morosely he followed her, feeling rather as if he
were walking in his sleep, through a door, along a passage, up a few
steps, and they were alone in a pretty boudoir that was cool and quiet,
fragrant with flowers, away from the crowd and the noise.

"Now we are safe! Give me a cigarette." Dorothy settled herself in a
deep chair; the gleam of her hair against a pile of purple cushions, her
long white arms and slender outline presented a striking picture, as
Philip could not but note as he stood before her on the hearthrug. Had
it not been for the disturbing idea that had taken definite shape in his
mind this evening he would have felt soothed, contented, very much at
home with her. As it was, he began to distrust his own powers of
resistance. Either he must get out of London at once, or he would be
forced seriously to consider the question of asking Lord Redgate's
daughter to be his wife. If, as he could not help assuming, she expected
him to propose to her sooner or later, opposition from her father was
not to be anticipated. Dorothy would have her own way--given the chance.
The fact that he was now actually contemplating the possibility startled
him. What a mean brute he must be! He could never love the girl as a man
should love the woman he married; if it became necessary he must tell
her the truth, and put an end to all thought of anything but
friendship....

"You are very glum to-night," she remarked, gazing at him through a
cloud of smoke. "What is the matter?"

"Probably the usual curse of the Anglo-Indian--liver!" he replied, with
an effort to speak lightly. "I've been eating and drinking too much ever
since I got home. It's time I went in for the simple life, somewhere out
of all this. It doesn't suit my peculiar constitution!"

"It doesn't suit me either," she said reflectively.

"You seem to thrive on it, anyway!"

"Oh! I am one of those chameleon people who can adapt themselves to any
surroundings. I could be happy anywhere, on a desert island, in the
Indian jungle--more particularly in the Indian jungle, provided----"

She paused and flicked some cigarette ash on to the carpet.

He took a little china saucer from the mantelpiece and placed it on a
table beside her. "You must learn to be tidy wherever you are!" he said
with mock severity, and added: "What was it you had to tell me?"

"A secret! Such a nice one, though soon it will be a secret no longer."

"Oh! Are you going to be married in spite of your contempt for my sex?"

She drew in her breath sharply, as though something had hurt her. "Why
do you remind me of my silly ideas? Don't you think I have the sense to
see when I have been wrong?"

He evaded reply to the question. "Well, out with this wonderful secret.
Don't keep me in suspense."

"It's this--you are to have the C.S.I.!" she told him triumphantly. "The
Star of India! Doesn't it sound splendid--glittering, glorious, grand!"

He stared at her stupidly, stammered: "How--how do you know?"

"Pater told me to-night, just as I was starting to come here," and she
added na√Øvely: "to come and meet _you_. Good old Pater, he is arranging
it all. Now, what do you say to that for a piece of news?"

"It is extremely kind of him, but I don't want it, I don't deserve it!"
he cried in desperation. "You must tell him--it must be stopped----"

"What on earth are you talking about? If you don't deserve it, who does?
Anyway, it's to be yours, whether you feel you deserve it or not, and I
can't tell you how proud I feel that in a kind of way you will have got
it through _me_!"

Through her! and through her, if he chose to say the word, he could have
all that, to the world, would appear to make life well worth the living.
For the moment the temptation was strong, almost overwhelming. Here, for
the asking, was the devotion of a clever, capable girl who had the
makings of a true comrade, who would revive his ambitions, enter
wholeheartedly into his career; he saw himself honoured, successful,
beyond his dreams; a power in the country that he loved to serve, with
every advantage, officially and socially, in his grasp. Why should he
hesitate? Here was his chance! he stood at the turning-point of his
existence that meant "fortune" without struggle or delay if he went
boldly forward....

Then, all at once, sweeping aside the temptation, the brilliant outlook,
came the thought of Stella, the true Star of his life and his heart; and
dimly he felt that to barter the memory of that other star, however far
from his reach, for tangible gain would be infamous, contemptible. The
shadow was more to him than the substance; he could not do this thing
and feel that his purpose was clean!

"I suppose you will think I am mad," he said slowly, with difficulty,
"but there is something--something that stands in the way----"

The girl paled, dropped the end of her cigarette into the saucer, and he
saw her hands grip the arms of the chair. "Is it--is it because----" she
lost her self-control. "Oh! don't look at me like that! Can't you
see--what does anything matter! Don't be so proud. Nothing can be too
good for you--Philip!"

She rose, held her hands out to him, firm, square hands; he took them
gently, reverently, and she swayed as she recognised the lack of passion
in his touch.

Haltingly, as best he could, he tried to tell her the truth, but it all
sounded so elusive, so unsubstantial, he felt he could hardly expect her
to comprehend. Silence fell between them; he turned from her in painful
regret.

She laid her hand on his shoulder. "Philip, don't you trust me? Do you
think I can't know how you feel? If I can't help you in one way I can in
another perhaps, by giving you all my sympathy and understanding. I hope
if I had been placed as you are that I should have done exactly the
same. I see--I realise----" she faltered pitifully, "that as things are
you can't take the Star, you can't owe it to _me_ in the least degree. I
will explain somehow to my father; leave it to me, it isn't too late,
and some day you will have it--earn it yourself entirely--and--it may be
the other one too, I hope so, I do indeed! if she is worthy of you. But
oh! how could she, how could she leave your letter unanswered! There may
have been some mistake, it may come all right, don't give up hope. The
most wonderful things happen. And I--I shall always be your friend----"

She stopped, breathing fast; she had spoken so rapidly, under such
stress of emotion. As he met her strained, wide-open eyes she looked
almost unreal. A mist clouded his vision; he felt choked as he tried to
answer, to thank her; speech seemed so futile; for him the whole thing
was beyond words; he knew he was failing hopelessly to express himself.

She gave a tremulous laugh that was half a sob. "It's all right, don't
say anything, don't try. We both _know_. Let's get back to the crowd,"
and moving to the door she turned out the lights. Quickly she went
before him, down the steps and along the narrow passage. He saw her
mingle with the throng, her head held high, talking and laughing, a
bright, conspicuous figure, a brave, noble-hearted girl! He wished
honestly that he could have loved her; wished it quite apart from the
solid advantages she could have brought him as his wife.



